Let's get into this DIVs soup kind
of debate that I'm a big fan of.
So this is from an Accessibility Weekly
article I saw, DIVs are not buttons.
And this has been one of the most classic
and kind of time honored debates of
accessibility is showing people
that use DIVs to be buttons or
DIVs to be checkboxes and
all the problems therein.
So let's make a button with a DIV,
the thing that you're not supposed to do.
But I hope it works as a nice exercise,
like a mental exercise to
see how much goes into this.
So, we take a div and we give it an on
click listener and it says click me.
And then we add some style to it, and it
looks like a button and you click it, and
it does a button thing, great, we're done.
So what are we missing here?
So one thing we're missing is that
screen readers will not know that it's
clickable, right?
There's no way that a screen reader would
tell you that the DIV is interactable
because screen readers don't
read into the onclicklistener.
They don't do anything like that.
So if you wanted to tell a screen
reader that it was clickable,
all you'd have to do,
is add an aria role to it.
And so with aria, we say hey, this
DIV's role is button and that's great.
Now the screen reader will say hey,
you've hit a button, and
the button's text is click me, excellent.
Okay, but problem here is keyboard
only users can't get to it,
because DIVs aren't tabable, right?
You can't tab over to a DIV,
otherwise you'd be tabbing on all
these like structural elements.
And so we'll get into this
a little bit more later, but
if you want an element to be tabable,
you have to give it tab index.
So quite simple there too.
So okay, so we take the thing, we give it
an on click listener, we give it an aria
roll a button and a tab index and
now a keyboard only user can get to it.
A screen reader will tell
you it's a button, and
it does the button thing
where you click on it.
Okay, but we've got another issue,
the keyboard only users can't click on it,
right?
They're keyboard only.
So we need to make sure that all of these
DIV buttons not only have the on click
listener, but
they also need an on key up listener.
This is the way that buttons work, right?
You can go to any button and
you can hit space on it, and
it'll interact with the button.
Okay, so we're getting there.
So we've got a div, we've got the tab
index for keyboard only users,
the key up for keyboard only users,
we've got our on click listener and
our roll of button, amazing.
Okay, but the problem here is that
screen readers will tell you that
the button is interactable,
it's not just that it's a button that.
When a screen reader hits a button, it'll
read the value of the button and tell you,
like, button submit or
something like that.
So we wanna accomplish that
similar thing now with our DIV.
So we can do that using the ARIA
label that we just learned.
So we could either have aria label,
click me, or we could have aria label and
a little bit of a better description.
And so I hope that this kinda gets
you into the mindset of like,
I'm pretty sure this gets
us all the way there.
I think the only thing that we're 100%
missing here is that buttons in CSS
they have strong focus rings,
in all the browsers, right?
For visual indicators that it's
highlighted as you're tabbing through.
So it wouldn't be in the HTML necessarily
but, I think the only thing that we're
missing here is, some really good style
attributes to make sure that on hover,
on focus, on select, they all have very
obvious visual indicators which would
probably bloat this code
example to being quite large.
But those are like the 6 things
that you would need to do,
in order to relatively guarantee that your
DIV would work the same way as a button.
Or you could literally just use a button
and just have your one on click listener.
The button will automatically wire up
the key, press to the click listener,
it'll read it, it'll give it tab index,
all of those things.
So, there's quite a bit sometimes unseen
with HTML elements, and I think button's
actually kind of a simpler one than
date picker or something like that, but
kinda goes to show how much power
there is in just these HTML elements.
And it also saves you quite a bit of
JavaScript that you have to maintain.
One of the most contentious ones
is Twitter's DIV soup, right.
This has been true since I was there,
and we did the rewrite into react from our
Ruby on Rails app and people started as
the new mobile app launched, and
people were playing around with it,
they started opening the Inspector or
opening the View, code, source.
And they would see millions and
millions and millions of DIVs.
And so people immediately went out and
they said,
Twitter's website is inaccessible, but
this isn't necessarily true, right?
It is DIV soup, and
it is kind of a mess to look at, and
I do think it would be better if it wasn't
DIV soup, but it's not necessarily true.
So Twitter uses this technology,
that allows you to generate a website for
react native or for web.
And that's never been used,
the react native side.
But it is possible in doing so, there's
all these elements that you don't get in
a native app that you do get in HTML.
And so the way that it works is actually
it works the way that we just saw before.
So it takes all of these elements that
don't exist in one operating system and
do exist in the other one, and
fully recreates them using standard
items like DIVs or spans and
a bunch of JavaScript, and a bunch of
styling, and a bunch of things like that.
And so if you were to browse the Twitter
website with a screen reader,
you would actually get a very
excellent accessibility story.
But it would be very hard to tell from
looking at it because it's DIV soup.
So I guess my point here
is I'm anti DIV soup,
with caveats that it is possible to
recreate, there's no magic to HTML, right?
It is possible to recreate
all this functionality, but
I think if you're ever going to stray
from the semantic HTML buttons,
you should know what you're
getting yourself signed up for.
You really do have to handle all these
cases, the different key presses,
the different screen reader interactions,
everything like that.
>> Speaker 1: Does this story change
a little bit with web components?
>> Speaker 1: In what way?
>> Speaker 1: Like to encapsulate
the DIV soup and make it look semantic.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, that's a great idea.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so I think web
components could go a long way here,
I'm not at all in favor of the output
that Twitter's markup has.
Yeah, I think you could wrap, you could
make great web components that were like
native acceptable button, or native
acceptable clickers, things like that.
So, I think you could do a great
job with kind of cleaning that up.
I guess it's a little
bit more philosophical,
like how much you care about
your source being easy to read.
I would prefer it be a lot better, but
this is what they ended up going with.